README.md, before:

# Material Design in Practice.

## Purpose
- Intended to be more understandable - A project to demonstrate the usage of color palette, typography and shapes as per the latest [material design guidelines](https://material.io/design/introduction "material design guidelines").
- Inspired from - https://github.com/material-components/material-components-android.

## Configuration
- Uses both app wide and widget level theming.
- Min SDK support is API 19.
- This app will respond and auto switch to day/ night mode depending on the system settings.

## Usage
- themes.xml will do the job of referring to the appropriate styling templates on runtime - whether day or night.
- Use [color palette generator tool](https://material.io/resources/color "generator tool") for preparing a new color scheme, export to the Android format (color.xml) and use the color variables to replace the existing set in the project.
- For applying app-wide default colors, you will be largely dealing with:

		* colorPrimary
		* colorPrimaryDark/ colorPrimaryVariant
		* colorSecondary
		* colorSecondaryVariant
		* android:textColorPrimary
		* android:textColorSecondary
		* android:colorBackground

- If you wish to try different new schemes - simply replace the colors under "Base Color Scheme" and above "Other colors" in color.xml. You may leave 'Other colors' constant since they are neutral for most cases.
- Concept: ![Alt text](/screens/concept.png?raw=true "Concept").
- Concept applied: ![Alt text](/screens/demo.png?raw=true "Concept applied").
- Take advantage of a new feature in the latest material design library that allows app-wide application of common styling for widgets from a single place - Refer to the base theme for an example.

## Caveats
- For unclear reasons, *colorPrimaryVariant* does NOT reflect on the status bar color despite the official material design guidelines - https://material.io/design/color/the-color-system.html#color-theme-creation. However, *colorPrimaryDark* DOES work [(Issue tracker)](https://github.com/material-components/material-components-android/issues/468 "(Issue tracker)").
 So it's useful to maintain both variables even though they point to the exact same colors.

## What's coming soon
- Application of material typography and shapes.
- Application of conditional theming attributes to take advantage of API specific features.
- More examples.

## Try the demo app

Visit the [releases](https://github.com/sabergeek/android-material-design-in-practice/releases "releases") section to download the latest iterations of the app.

### References
- Screens grabbed (slightly modified) from - https://speakerdeck.com/anitas3791/styles-themes-material-theming-oh-my
- Color guide: https://material.io/design/color/the-color-system.html
- Color palette generator tool: https://material.io/resources/color
- Key lines and grids reference - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ESJuU2gp-P8
- Issue tracker : https://github.com/material-components/material-components-android/issues/468

Commit message:

- Added a new tab for material shapes. - Removed view ids where not necessary. - Added more comments wherever necessary with clear explanations. - Fixed the Day/ night switching logic. - Changed the default theme color scheme. - Added app screenshots. - Updated README.

README.md, after:

# Material Design in Practice.

## Purpose
- Intended to be simple - A project to demonstrate the usage of color palette, typography and shapes as per the [material design guidelines](https://material.io/design/introduction "material design guidelines").

## Configuration
- Uses both app wide and view level theming.
- Min SDK support is API 19.
- This app will respond and auto switch to day/ night mode depending on the system settings.

## Usage
- themes.xml will do the job of referring to the appropriate styling templates on runtime - whether day or night.
- All view specific styles are nearly declared under styles.xml.
- Use [color palette generator tool](https://material.io/resources/color "generator tool") for preparing a new color scheme, export to the Android format (color.xml) and use the color variables to replace the existing set in the project.
- For applying app-wide default colors, you will be largely dealing with:

		* colorPrimary
		* colorPrimaryDark/ colorPrimaryVariant
		* colorSecondary
		* colorSecondaryVariant
		* android:textColorPrimary
		* android:textColorSecondary
		* android:colorBackground

- If you wish to try different new schemes - simply replace the colors under "Base Color Scheme" and above "Other colors" in color.xml. You may leave 'Other colors' constant since they are neutral for most cases.
- Take advantage of a new feature in the latest material design library that allows app-wide application of common styling for views from a single place - Refer to the base theme for an example.
- Concept: ![Alt text](/screens/concept.png?raw=true "Concept").
- Concept applied (For reference only. The demo app in the project is different): ![Alt text](/screens/demo.png?raw=true "Concept applied").
- App screenshot: 1 ![Alt text](/screens/1.png?raw=true "App screenshot: 1").
- App screenshot: 2 ![Alt text](/screens/2.png?raw=true "App screenshot: 2").
- App screenshot: 3 ![Alt text](/screens/3.png?raw=true "App screenshot: 3").

## Caveats
- For unclear reasons, *colorPrimaryVariant* does NOT reflect on the status bar color despite the official material design guidelines - https://material.io/design/color/the-color-system.html#color-theme-creation. However, *colorPrimaryDark* DOES work [(Issue tracker)](https://github.com/material-components/material-components-android/issues/468 "(Issue tracker)").
 So it's useful to maintain both variables even though they point to the exact same colors.

## What's coming soon
- Application of material typography.
- More examples.

## Try the demo app

Visit the [releases](https://github.com/sabergeek/android-material-design-in-practice/releases "releases") section to download the latest iterations of the app.

### References
- Screens grabbed (slightly modified) from - https://speakerdeck.com/anitas3791/styles-themes-material-theming-oh-my
- Color guide: https://material.io/design/color/the-color-system.html
- Color palette generator tool: https://material.io/resources/color
- Key lines and grids reference - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ESJuU2gp-P8
- Issue tracker : https://github.com/material-components/material-components-android/issues/468
